import { NFTTokenDiagram } from '../../../components/docs/NFTTokenDiagram';

**Smart contracts** are applications running on the blockchain. There are many
different kinds smart contracts, but we'll be focusing on NFT smart contracts in
particular.

## NFT Smart Contracts

An NFT smart contract is an application that stores a list of numbers. Each
number, known as a token `id` (short for _identifier_), has an `owner` and
`token uri` associated with it.

For example, a contract might associate 3 token ids with owners and uris like
this:

<NFTTokenDiagram />

When you buy an NFT (on OpenSea, for example), this updates the smart contract
so that _your_ wallet address is listed as the owner of a specific id. The token
uri tells OpenSea where to find the _metadata_ associated with this token, which
can be used to display its multimedia assets.

Typically for each smart contract, the first NFT is represented by the id 0 or
1, and then the next is 2, then 3, and so on. So for example, an NFT collection
like CryptoPunks or Bored Ape Yacht Club has 10000 NFTs total, each with a
unique id 0 through 9999.

Now, when you deploy an NFT smart contract on Ethereum, OpenSea will
automatically detect it and add it to their website. But how do they _know_ a
contract is an NFT contract?

## Protocols

A smart contract must have specific functionality in order to be considered an
NFT smart contract. This set of functionality is called a `protocol`.

On Ethereum, there are two NFT protocols:

- **ERC-721** - The simplest NFT protocol, defined
  [here](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721)
- **ERC-1155** - A more complex protocol allowing both fungible and non-fungible
  tokens, defined [here](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155)

Both protocols are conceptually fairly similar and work equally well for
standard NFTs. If you're just getting started, I recommend using ERC-721 due to
its simplicity. The tools on this site focus on ERC-721... which is why it's
called "Studio 721"!

There's a smart contract function called `supportsInterface` that a site like
OpenSea can call to check if a specific contract is an NFT contract, i.e. if it
supports ERC-721 or ERC-1155. This is how OpenSea automatically detects
contracts you deploy!

## Functions

A protocol defines a set of smart contract `functions`. Any contract that
implements the functions in an NFT protocol is _by definition_ an NFT smart
contract.

ERC-721 defines quite a few functions, and some of the technical details are
fairly complex. For this reason, most NFT developers don't implement NFT smart
contracts from scratch. Instead, they rely on open source implementations
created and tested by the broader community of smart contract developers. By far
the most common implementation is the
[OpenZeppelin version](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/erc721).

Though OpenZeppelin takes care of most of the advanced code, there are still a
few functions that are essential to understand. Let's consider two key
functions:

- `ownerOf` - This function returns the wallet address that owns a specific
  token id.
- `tokenURI` - This function returns the metadata uri for a specific token id.

Any NFT smart contract that implements ERC-721 will contain these two functions
(among others). These functions are used by platforms like OpenSea to show who
owns an NFT and what image to display for that NFT.

> Note that older NFT contracts, such as CryptoPunks, may not adhere to either
> ERC-721 or ERC-1155. OpenSea has a custom integration for such contracts.

Let's see how this plays out in a real contract. Now, if only there were a free
tool for interacting with smart contract functions...

## Etherscan

[Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/) is an extremely useful website for exploring
transactions, addresses, smart contracts, and other Ethereum info.

We can often view smart contract code and call smart contract functions using
Etherscan. Smart contract authors must "verify" their source code for it to
appear on the Etherscan website, so not all contracts can be viewed â€” however,
most NFT smart contract authors verify their contracts to earn trust from people
interacting with the NFTs.

## Example

Let's take a well-known contract and try calling `ownerOf` and `tokenURI` on
Etherscan. Go to the Bored Ape Yacht Club smart contract on Etherscan
[here](https://etherscan.io/address/0xbc4ca0eda7647a8ab7c2061c2e118a18a936f13d#readContract).
Note that you don't need to connect your wallet to try this!

Try calling the `ownerOf` function to find the address that owns token 10:

![Calling ownerOf for BAYC token 10](/docs/etherscan-bayc-ownerof.png)

If you type the number "10" and then click the "Query" button, it should display
a wallet address. In my case, that displayed `0x1d3a...7AF8`.

Do the same for the `tokenURI` function:

![Calling tokenURI for BAYC token 10](/docs/etherscan-bayc-tokenuri.png)

In this case you should see the uri `ipfs://QmeS...aWtq/10`. This uri is a link
to the _metadata_ for Bored Ape #10. We'll look at what that means in the next
section!
